1. Study the basic file structure of unix/linux system.

Ans: Unix file system is a logical method of organizing and storing large amounts of information in a way that makes it easy to manage. A file is a smallest unit in which the information is stored. Unix file system has several important features. All data in Unix is organized into files. All files are organized into directories. These directories are organized into a tree-like structure called the file system.
Files in Unix System are organized into multi-level hierarchy structure known as a directory tree. At the very top of the file system is a directory called “root” which is represented by a “/”. All other files are “descendants” of root.
Everything in Unix is considered to be a file, including physical devices such as DVD-ROMs, USB devices, and floppy drives.

Unix filesystem is a collection of files and directories that has the following properties −

1. / : The slash / character alone denotes the root of the filesystem tree.
2. /bin : Stands for “binaries” and contains certain fundamental utilities, such as ls or cp, which are generally needed by all users.
3. /boot : Contains all the files that are required for successful booting process.
4. /dev : Stands for “devices”. Contains file representations of peripheral devices and pseudo-devices.
5. /etc : Contains system-wide configuration files and system databases. Originally also contained “dangerous maintenance utilities” such as init,but these have typically been moved to /sbin or elsewhere.
6. /home : Contains the home directories for the users.
7. /lib : Contains system libraries, and some critical files such as kernel modules or device drivers.
8. /media
9. /mnt
10. /proc
11. /root
12. /tmp
13. /usr etc 

Some basic commands are: 
1 cat filename : Displays a filename
2 cd dirname

Moves you to the identified directory
3 	
cp file1 file2

Copies one file/directory to the specified location
4 	

file filename

Identifies the file type (binary, text, etc)
5 	

find filename dir

Finds a file/directory
6 	

head filename

Shows the beginning of a file
7 	

less filename

Browses through a file from the end or the beginning
8 	

ls dirname

Shows the contents of the directory specified
9 	

mkdir dirname

Creates the specified directory
10 	

more filename

Browses through a file from the beginning to the end
11 	

mv file1 file2

Moves the location of, or renames a file/directory
12 	

pwd

Shows the current directory the user is in
13 	

rm filename

Removes a file
14 	

rmdir dirname

Removes a directory
15 	

tail filename

Shows the end of a file
16 	

touch filename

Creates a blank file or modifies an existing file or its attributes
17 	

whereis filename

Shows the location of a file
18 	

which filename

Shows the location of a file if it is in your PATH




2. 
